>> Will Sentance: Sarah Rose's Mac,
Sarah Rose's Mac opens,
what she open twitter.com/node,
by the way people,
I literally searched for
a nice screenshot of tweets.
So I thought there's something clean and
nice like node and
twitter is a horrible place.
Then both voted tweet on there was,
if you don't like node, die.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: So
I couldn't do a screenshot,
so we have to just imagine.
That was the most upvoted tweet,
300 likes, if you don't like node,
you're gonna die or something like that.
What is this place?
Anyway, all right, so
Sara Rose, Mac, Mac, okay.
So let's start now doing the colors,
cuz we're going to keep track.
Of, we're gonna keep trying of each of
these things by using different colors.
Let's have,
node is green isn't it everybody?
Let's do green, okay.
Okay, and then we'll use black for
JavaScript and
we're gonna use blue for
our computers internal.
So okay, Sarah Roses, Mac sends off
an internet message it lands at?
It lands at Twitters, computer Twitter's,
yeah, Twitters computer.
>> Will Sentance: There it is,
okay, it lands here.
Up here, folk,
is where we're going to run or
write the JavaScript
code that we're running.
But her inbound message definitely
does not arrive in JavaScript.
Remind me again, Zeb, where it arrives?
>> Speaker 3: Where does it arrive,
the inbound message?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Into a node.
>> Will Sentance: No, no.
>> Speaker 3: [CROSSTALK] network.
>> Will Sentance: Into the network card,
effectively, right?
So here is gonna be our computer
internals, or internal features.
And this, folk,
this is where our inbound message arrives.
It's got all the data we need to
be able to send back to say Rose,
the exact tweet she needs.
But here's a problem [SOUND] we want to
write JavaScript code to access it because
we unfortunately didn't learn C++,
no, exactly, we don't use C++.
So what are we gonna do?
Your name was, man?
>> Charlie: Charlie.
>> Will Sentance: Charlie,
how am I going to get access?
Am I gonna try and
write JavaScript codes directly interact
with these computer internal features?
No, what am I gonna do instead?
>> Charlie: You'll need to
go through some C++ code.
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely spot on,
I'm gonna have node,
very light green,
here we go, node C++ built
features, there they are, and
we're not going to try and
access .The computers internal
like its network feature,
lets have its network feature there,
its networking.
We're not gonna try and
access those directly from JavaScript,
we're gonna access them
indirectly by using labels.
In JavaScript, they'll look like
JavaScript functions if for
reality commands to nodes C++ features.
I would say this node, some of this
stuff is done in JavaScript as well but
they're both the interface with
the confusing titles in the C++.
And from that, we will then effect and
grab the message and pass it up.
Now this may seem like a crowded one as
on the Java Script old people the vast
majority of the interesting stuff of nodes
hard work is all happening down here.
So we better understand this
intimately but also unfortunately.
Well he's better understand how
his work minutes on the code but
know how it's working.
Me maybe how to understand a bit about
what's going on here what is a socket for
example, but we also better understand
how this language is working.
All right people so on that note
here we go this is reiterate this
c++ many features that let it directly
interact with the operating system.
That's what you call the computer's
internals, directly.
JavaScript doesn't,
by the way, just to be clear,
C++ isn't gonna go sit on the network
card itself, it's gonna interact with
abstraction layers of
the operating system as well.
Things like you will learn all about this
other stuff a little bit later on but
hold that thought for
now what is a combination known as nodejs.
I know it should be called
node js C C++ it for
real it should be it
should be acknowledging.
All the hard work here done by C++ and
not by JavaScript.
JavaScript controls node C++ features
controls computer features, okay.
Got it, good, rewind.
We had better understand
JavaScript's execution model
if we're then gonna understand node.
It's a language that does three things.
I mean, it does more things but
three main things.
And one of them isn't
even much in JavaScript,
it's mostly using,
mostly involves a lot of help from C++.
One, it saves data, numbers,
strings, arrays, objects,
and functionality.
That code is gonna be run later on.
Two it uses that data by
running functionality
saved code has not been used yet,
but he's later on it.
And then three has a ton of
built-in labels that are gonna
trigger node features that are built
in C++ to use our computers internals.
But let's see these first two in action.
The first two things that JavaScript
does by itself, independent of node,
saving using data.
Let's see the two things that
JavaScript does by itself,
without the help of node background C++
features, so we're not doing that yet.
Because we'd better understand this
JavaScript language really intimately.
If we are gonna know how it's gonna
interact with this feature down here then
I would C++ we just.